Industrial shredders

The double shaft industrial shredders of the PZ and OP lines are metal
waste crushing plants, designed to shred and effectively reduce the
volumes of bulky waste, mixed waste, metal scrap, MSW and large
quantities of industrial waste. Their effectiveness is confirmed by the
many companies in the industry using them to shred paper mill pulper,
copper, aluminium, electric cables and electric motors, and dispose of
WEEE and tyres.

The design advantages of our industrial shredders concern the quality of
the alloys that the screwed sector and standard integral blades of the
shredder are made of, that are specially selected to guarantee long
service life for waste disposal process components. Furthermore, the
cutting chamber has been designed in such a way as to ensure easy, quick
replacement of worn components. Panizzolo Recycling’s waste shredding
machines are equipped with hydraulically or electrically driven power
transmission units. The base and loading hopper are available in various
sizes depending on the material to be processed and the processing
logistic choices.

Thanks to simple, intuitive control software, the operator can safely
and independently monitor all processing stages. Finally, the high
production yield, lower costs and high quality of output materials mean
our range of industrial shredders have very high performance. Output
materials are optimally suited to be transported and transferred to
bulky waste recycling and refining plants. Panizzolo Recycling offers a
wide range of bulky waste shredders, able to support all companies in
the waste management system. Our shredders are divided into shredding
systems for scrap, shredding systems for waste, opener systems and
tearing machinery.

Hydraulic circuit

Panizzolo Recycling’s two-shaft shredders are innovative solutions
developed specifically to support all companies in metal and ferrous
scrap shredding. Thanks to their high technical and manufacturing
advantages, these scrap shredders are considered by industry operators
to be reliable, durable and highly performing machines, with long
service lives.
