Flex stationary hammer mills

Recycling plants for the flexible grinding of metal scrap

Grinding patents
A common characteristic of Panizzolo hammer mills, the interchangeable
cradle is a significant plus in the grinding of metal scrap


Grinding logic
The structure of the mill is designed to prevent the ejection of
material from the inlet while wear is limited to armours, grilles and
hammers. These items are manufactured with the best steels and castings
for gradual wear and keeping the quality of the ground scrap constant.

Low energy costs
The hammer mill maximises the ratio between energy consumption and
hourly productivity. The line includes models from 110 kW to 315 kW,
with production performance from 4.5 ton/h to 15 ton/h depending on the
machinery.

Low management costs
The machinery is designed to minimise production downtime and the number
of operators involved in the operation. The software autonomously
monitors and adjusts the treatment, so that personnel do not need to be
constantly near the plant.

Rotor and hammers
The rotors facilitate grinding of scrap, absorbing stress without
long-term structural repercussions. Panizzolo has eliminated the most
common points of fragility by studying every element and designing
specific components. Hammers are installed they can rotate freely 360°.
They are designed for an ideal crushing capacity without being subject
to long-term warping, breakage or cracks.

Easy maintenance
These periodical operations require an essential number of operators,
without the need for special equipment or highly professional
competences. The rotor can turn all the way thanks to the built-in
double sheave. Controls and greasing are designed to be simple and
intuitive.

“Flex” hammer mills are designed for the grinding and initial sorting of
a vast type of metal scraps. The machinery includes as per standard:
load conveyor belt, oscillating load and unload system, hammer mills
with rotor and patented cradle, base with vibration dampers, magnetic
drum, walkways, access ladders, electric panel with supervision
software, electric and hydraulic circuit and safety and monitoring
systems of the process.

Panizzolo hammer mills allow full access to the grinding chamber where
one can effectively intervene on the cradle, rotor, grilles, hammers and
armours. All these details make a difference in reducing any machine
downtime. Consistent with our quality policy, Panizzolo designs almost
all of the components and uses components coming from Italian or North
European suppliers known for top quality in the sector.
