Kraken pre-shredders

The Kraken Series is designed for the volumetric reduction of
high-impact scrap metal, offering a durable and technologically advanced
solution. Each component is built to ensure operational continuity,
reliability and full integration in modern industrial plants.

Key strengths

High production performance

The Kraken series guarantees high production standards when processing
complex scrap. The shredding logic, combined with a solid mechanical
structure, allows large loads to be handled without interruption. Thanks
to its perfect integration with Panizzolo hammer mills – particularly
the MEGA models – the Kraken series helps maximise the performance of
the entire plant.

Effective volumetric reduction

At the heart of the process and the result of advanced know-how, the
in-house designed gear shafts are one of the distinguishing features of
Kraken pre-shredders. Their configuration ensures precise and effective
tearing, capable of reducing material in a single step, even when
dealing with bulky or compact scrap.

Structural quality

Every construction detail is designed to successfully cope with even the
most intensive applications: from the selection of certified framework
to reinforced welds, and the use of components supplied by top Italian
and Northern European companies. The design choices respond to a logic
oriented towards the highest structural quality, which guarantees
strength, durability and reliable long-term performance.

Simplified maintenance

The Kraken series is designed to be operational quickly and facilitate
maintenance. The quick release system of the shafts from the gearboxes
allows for agile and targeted interventions, while the internally
designed bearing supports protect the mechanical components from dirt
and contamination, preserving the operational efficiency of the
machinery.

Fast and flexible configuration

The electrical panel and hydraulic power unit are located in dedicated
containers, designed to facilitate transport, installation and start-up
operations. A compact and functional solution that simplifies logistics
management and optimises set-up time.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Fields of application

The PSH Kraken 2300 is designed for shredding complex scrap such as
whole cars and car bales even complete with engines and mechanical
components, aluminium profiles, ferrous scrap, mixed and bulky scrap.
The configuration of the shredding chamber and shafts allows large
volumes to be handled continuously and accurately, maximising production
performance.

Process safety and reliability

One of the added values of the PSH Kraken 2300 is its high effectiveness
in protecting the treatment process. Thanks to its shredding logic, the
machine also acts directly on potentially critical components such as
cylinders or tanks, tearing them apart and releasing any residual gas or
flammable liquids. This approach reduces the risk of damage or faults in
subsequent stages and contributes to the overall safety and reliability
of the plant.

Intelligent and flexible management

The closed-circuit hydraulic system, with variable displacement pumps
and electronic control, allows torque and speed to be adjusted according
to the material being processed. This allows a dynamic response to
mechanical stresses and complete versatility in handling, as well as
offering greater operational stability.

High-performance gearboxes

PSH Kraken 2300 incorporates planetary gearboxes dimensioned to
withstand high loads and harsh working conditions. High performance is
guaranteed by technology partners that are internationally recognised
for the excellence of their quality standards.



Accessories


Volume reduction bar

Installed below the shredding chamber, it is suitable for the treatment
of bulk materials such as ferrous collection and light aluminium.

Hydraulic cooling system

Designed to ensure thermal stability in the hottest climates, it
maintains a constant oil temperature, protecting the system from ambient
heat.
