Mobile hammer mills

Transportable recycling plants for the flexible grinding of metal scrap

Transport and installation

The special frame makes loading and unloading of the machinery simple,
while the compact structure avoids needing to use exceptional transport
on road. The Flex Mobile series is supplied pre-assembled, allowing for
quick installation.

Low energy costs

The hammer mill maximises the ratio between energy consumption and
hourly productivity. The line includes models from 90 kW to 315 kW, with
production performance from 3.5 ton/h to 15 ton/h depending on the
machinery.

Easy-to-use

The machinery is designed to minimise production downtime and the number
of operators involved in the operation.

Low sound emissions

The outside of the Flex Mobile hammer mills are covered with
soundproofing and water repellent panelling, to greatly reduce noise and
protect against atmospheric agents.

Treatment flexibility

Thanks to the patented cradle built into the hammer mill, the machinery
stands out for high flexibility in processing scrap.

The “Flex Mobile” line consists of compact recycling plants designed for
the grinding and initial sorting of metal scrap. These are turnkey
solutions as they include as per standard: soundproofing cabin, load
hopper, hammer mill, feed system, conveyor belts, magnetic sorting,
electric panel, supervision software, electric and safety circuit.
Various sorting accessories can be installed depending on the treatment
cycle, designed directly by Panizzolo to be modular and interconnected
for operation of the machinery.

The mobile plants facilitate access to the synergic areas of the
structure and allow for quick and easy maintenance operations. Panizzolo
hammer mills allow full access to the grinding chamber where one can
effectively intervene on the cradle, rotor, grilles, hammers and
armours. All these details make a difference in reducing any machine
downtime.

Consistent with our quality policy, Panizzolo designs almost all of the
components and uses components coming from Italian or North European
suppliers known for top quality in the sector.
